How many times have you had a camera
crew film you when you're in a sauna?
I'm a father [music] to two beautiful
daughters.
I'm also a husband,
a son,
a cyclist,
a citizen. I should [music] try that.
What could possibly go wrong? Ow, we got
stones falling on our heads. When our
most precious resource is draining away,
Wow, there's a lot of trash here.
The unfairness is striking at it. It's
surely got to
>> [cheering]
>> We have to reclaim what's lost. [music]
Raw sewage. Yeah. We take what we have
and we are happy with it. Groundwater
[music] rejuvenation is crucial to the
city's water sustainability for today
and for tomorrow.
Such a happy feeling.
For everyone.
The most futuristic thing in water, this
is it.
I'm Nikolaj Coster-Waldau. My leg. I
love it. And this is an optimist's guide
to the planet.
>> [music]
>> So, it never [music] rains, but it sure
as hell looks like rain. If no rain,
Lima is the largest city in Peru, built
in the middle of a desert.
It gets less than an inch of rain a
year,
which is hard to believe.
How is this not rain?
How is Look up.
This is rain.
Feels like [music] rain, I guess.
Is it mist? It's a mist.
>> [laughter]
>> Lima is this in the desert, but because
Lima is close to Pacific, the wind came
from the Pacific and get it stuck with
the mountains, and that's why it's a lot
of
a lot of moisture.
>> Yeah.
But never rain.
Now we are going to go up with the
mountains. This where poor people live.
Usually in other countries, up the hills
was the most expensive. On the top of
the mountain, there is a big wall
dividing
the rich people with poor people.
We're meeting a guy named Abel who
[music] lived in a part of Lima similar
to where we're going. But there was no
electricity, there was no plumbing,
there was no water.
We need water. That's one of the basics
of of life, and he thought there must be
a way to collect this water,
this moisture in the air.
>> [music]
>> This is a steep hill.
A homemade road, huh?
Abel.
I'm Nikolaj.
This is my wife.
Okay, hello, how are you? I thought we
were doing a story about about dry
No? Lisette?
Where's Lisette? Okay. Lisette,
um I've never seen so much water on an
on a place that doesn't rain.
So, it's this weird irony the people
they're soaked every morning, but you
live in a place with no access to water.
Wow.
>> [laughter]
>> How did you get the idea of collecting
the moisture in the air?
>> [music]
>> It's okay. Let's get to work then.
The lens is collecting water.
What's a very important part of this
that it had to be very cheap?
What year did you put the first net up?
Okay. How many have you [music] put up
around Lima? How many nets?
What is it
Yes. Oh, over here.
That's where the rich live in the fog.
That's ironic.
So, this used to be a wall?
This is a official rich area. The The
kids come here to do biking, while the
poorest build their houses on the
border.
The poor people on this side, and then
you have the mountain bike for
entertaining.
>> Yeah, for entertaining, yeah.
Is that part of the wall, or is that
something different?
Who removed the wall physically?
Nikolaj?
Okay, you want me to climb up there?
Oh my god, where's the clip?
I just need the
And then I put it like this?
>> Yes. [snorts]
Oh my god, I'm up high now, huh?
Can I get a job here?
You're hired.
It's working. No, the water is working
as
I was just going to wash my hands.
This one net, how much water does this
provide?
Wow.
In one in in 24 hours?
In one in one day. How many people get
water from all the nets in Lima?
So, the water is collected, it runs
through the pipes, it goes down to these
tanks, and from there?
That's the water from the nets.
You don't want to waste any more.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Wow. Maize?
Can I try?
Okay, is that tinny tinny's?
All three?
Say six. Six years old. Can you repeat
what your names are?
Mayumi?
Kalisi?
Okay, let me just Kalisi. I I know a
Kalisi.
You are a princess.
Okay, so there you go.
That's small world.
What do you think of these nets?
What do you want to be when you grow
old? Do you have an idea?
Police or is it painter? Painter or
police?
Or you can be both.
So you said so you want to be an artist
or a police officer. Why police officer?
I hope you will see a better future for
you when you grow up.
Thank god we have dogs and cats.
They can make us happy.
>> [music]
>> When you call a show an optimist guide
to the planet, it's easy to then imagine
it being some kind of uh
soft, happy-go-lucky,
everything is just, you know, stay
positive, everything's going to be good.
My optimism is is is
you know, I think it's it's grounded in
in meeting like kids like that. How they
see their circumstances and being very
aware of the
unfairness of the circumstance that they
live here.
They have dreams.
Like our kids.
They do believe in the future. That's
the thing that gives you hope.
But it is
>> [clears throat]
>> And then it's so ridiculous that
something as simple as access to water
is
is so difficult for so many people.
The 2 million people here the unfairness
is is [music] striking. It
hits you in the gut.
You got it?
>> [applause]
>> The fact that you are taking action is
changing people's lives.
Water is the most important ingredient
for life.
For people, for communities everywhere.
But in our rush for development, we
often take it for granted.
This is India's version of Silicon
Valley.
A city of contradictions where ancient
traditions meet cutting-edge innovation.
And at nearly 15 million people, it's
one of the fastest growing cities in
Asia.
It's also a place
where the water supply is on the brink
of collapse.
Bangalore was known as the city of a
thousand lakes.
A lot of lakes have been
raised because of of construction and
because of the city growing.
And then the rest has just been used as
a dumping ground for trash and sewage.
Yeah, I think there's so many different
ways
that you have to deal [music] with this
because they need reclaim the lakes for
drinking water.
I'm going to see three groups.
Each playing a part [music] in the
solution to Bangalore's water crisis.
First, I'm on my way to meet a gentleman
called Anand and he is is a project
where they're cleaning up lakes.
Wow. There's a lot of trash here.
Oh my god, look at that.
>> [music]
>> Does this lead into the lake?
[music]
>> Hello, Anand. Hello. Warm welcome to
you.
You're cleaning a lake? Yes. So all
going on work? Yes, happening now.
Is it dirty lake?
>> Dirty lake. Uh And you can see
situation.
Massive. Right?
You can see sludge.
There is a fecal matter of people, food
grain, oil, grease, plastic. Everything
is mixed it.
In Bangalore, yeah.
Why did they allow all these lakes to be
destroyed? Around 20 years back, nobody
realized the city started growing very
rapidly. Now, a lot of people started
migrating from village to city for
education, business, work. So
thought that where exactly our sewage is
going. No, no. Right?
There is no proper treatment system. The
all sewage is going to lake.
I'm a lake conservationist. I rejuvenate
them.
And uh I bring back lost glory of the
lakes.
How long have you been doing this? I'm
doing last 10 years. I was working with
the one of the company Uh-huh.
automotive and aerospace industry. Okay.
Good salary, perks, happy life,
everything. One day I read a newspaper
Bangalore will become a zero water city.
By 2030, Uh-huh. Bangalore Yeah. no
drinking water. Wow. After reading that
somewhere, I felt uncomfortable.
What will be the situation of people?
Where can they drink water? How can they
survive?
Then I started researching one of the
lake nearby.
One side [music] full of sewage. When I
was walking to, you know, just
check the lake, I fell down into that
pit.
It was so dirty, so smelly.
I stay in a apartment community. Even
security did not allow me inside.
Then I decided,
let me do it.
I wanted to make one lake and show it to
people. First lake I rejuvenated in a 45
days. Wow. That lake made me to continue
this journey full life. I left my
corporate life, everything. I'm in lake.
I enjoy it till
Come. I'll show you.
Can see here.
What is going on it is called
excavation.
Job is remove dirt water.
Remove the sludge completely.
Reach a fresh soil. Wow. And then you're
ready for big rainfall. Rainfall.
Once you have this completely cleaned
up, how long before it's filled up with
rain water? Good 9 10 rains, huh?
Lake will get filled up.
Wow.
And next lake we will going to show
Yeah. is after transforming is with
water, with birds, with animals,
everything.
Anand isn't just restoring lakes.
He's reclaiming the entire ecosystem,
making sure any untreated sewage doesn't
contaminate the lakes anymore.
This is where you don't want to take the
wrong step, too, right? Yeah, that's
what I mean. This is all sewage. Yeah.
You can see full black. Oh my god, yeah.
This is the canal. Whatever sewage used
to come inside the lake, it has been
diverted.
It never mix with lake. It never mixes
with the lake.
>> Yeah.
All these aquatic plants will absorb
excess nutrients, then exposed to
ultraviolet sun, so that the anaerobic
bacteria will be reduced.
Anand's system replicates many of the
functions of a sewage treatment
facility,
but he's using plants interconnected
ponds, and the UV rays of the sun
instead of machines and holding tanks.
So you guys planted all this? Yes. It
all planted by me.
That's your That's your tree. More than
15,000 houses sewage is flowing here.
It's coming here. No smell? No, yeah,
that's
>> So, without sewage treatment plant,
without chemical, without machineries,
without electricity, soil, water,
botanical, sun can do magic. This is
what my message.
That is magic.
>> Yeah.
Wow, look at this. See here, Titanic.
You are
Love it. Oh, my neck.
Oh, my neck. I love it.
>> Thank you, Jack.
It's beautiful.
No words. I love my lake. It's the
largest lake of me. 84 acres 84 acres.
84 acres?
>> Yes, 40 hectares. See, with full of
water, see my world.
Wow.
That's beautiful.
See, who's still clear?
>> [music]
>> It's beautiful. Thank you. No smell?
No smell.
>> Absolutely.
It is not only lake, it is not only
surface water. Lakes are ecosystem.
Once these lakes fill up, they
percolate, they recharge their ground
water.
So by doing rejuvenation, by cleaning
this, all the ground water will have a
good quality where people get it for
their drinking water.
If you protect small small small lake,
[music] it will change everything.
Bangalore will not have a scarcity of
the water.
Bangalore will have a lot of drinking
water because we store maximum water in
the lakes.
Now government, people, all are
together.
See, it is not an independent job. It's
teamwork.
It's beautiful.
See, when you came there, when the lake
opens up with a full fresh water
>> Yes. you will become emotional. Yes, I
Well, you do you You become emotional.
You also. Me, too.
>> [laughter]
>> Revitalizing Bangalore's lakes is an
essential step towards solving the
city's water crisis.
But that alone won't replenish the water
supply in full.
Like Anand says,
it's teamwork, and the goal is
replenishing the ground water.
It rains a lot here. They get a lot of
rain. The problem is that because the
city has grown,
a lot of the water just is is washed
into to the sewer, and then, you know,
>> [music]
>> it doesn't make its its way down to the
ground water. But there's a solution.
It's very old technology, and I'm
curious to see what that is.
Oh, I see a guy. Is that Wishwanath?
I'll jump out.
All right.
Wishwanath? Yes. I'm Nikolai.
Good to see you.
So um Bangalore, the city of a thousand
lakes.
>> Yes.
Now down to 186.
On top of that, it's almost like a
desert on the ground because the ground
water's been depleted. Yes.
>> correct? A lot of the ground water is
now run out. India is now the world's
largest user of ground water. Oh, wow.
We use more water than the USA and China
combined. Now we realize that rainwater
is one of the taps that the city has to
get into, and therefore rainwater
harvesting and ground water rejuvenation
is crucial to the city's water
sustainability.
This lake stores, let's say, 90 million
liters of water, but the ground water
potential is 29,000 million liters of
water.
And if you fill that up, then the town's
water requirements will be met by ground
water.
And how do we do that?
We came across the traditional well
digging community called the Mannu
Waddars, who have been digging wells for
a thousand years. This is the way that
water was managed [music]
till pipe water supply came into our
cities. Once pipe water supply came in,
they started to lose their livelihoods a
bit.
Their ability to understand [music]
soil, their ability to dig, and their
ability to do it absolutely safely is
remarkable about the Mannu Waddar
community.
This is Shankar. Nikolai.
>> He won't speak English, but his father,
his forefathers all dug wells.
So there are 120 families in his
village. All of them are well diggers.
How many projects have you got going
now? We hope to dig a million wells. A
million wells?
>> A million wells. Why stop at a million?
A million is just the initial goal.
So we're going to see some a well being
dug? A a recharge well, which Shankar
has already finished, and one which is
being dug. So both of them together.
Also, this is the recharge well.
And this is Shankar's team working.
Recharge wells take rainwater from
rooftops and from storm water drains and
push it into the aquifer, build up the
ground water table.
Just explain the procedure to me. So you
mark the circle Uh-huh.
and you start to dig.
And that's
>> That's it. You just dig dig dig dig.
>> So it's gone to 19 ft. They dug this in
one day, and they'll go a foot more and
stop.
I should try that.
Hold the illiboda. Who's illiboda?
Yeah.
Yes. There and over your head. Yeah.
There are holes for you to grip.
>> Okay. Footsteps.
Okay.
So you go over here.
What could possibly go wrong? Nope.
Hello.
Nice to meet you.
Just down you're kicking down Ow. Hey,
guys. We got stones falling on our
heads.
The well diggers are advising me to tell
you not to look up because
I learned the hard way.
Let's get some work done.
Okay.
This goes back thousands of years,
right? The oldest wells in India are
about 6,000 years old. And as you said,
you're giving employment to a lot of
people. Many families. And you keep a
tradition going. Beautiful.
So now we're just going to clean this
up, and then we're going to start
putting down the rings.
>> Right. Exactly.
>> [music]
[music]
>> This is Shankar is now going down to
pack the sides with the stone. Oh, I
see. The packing has to be very
carefully done.
That's what keeps the whole thing
stable.
Oh, so this is a finished well?
>> This is a finished well.
They get about 600,000 liters of water
on the roof, and they're putting that
into the well.
>> Oh, I see.
You keep it here. You don't store it,
but it will slowly go into the earth. Go
into the earth.
>> Yes. And if you're lucky, over time, the
water will come back in the well.
>> Because
>> And then you can start to draw the
water.
>> And then you can draw. The earth is
filled. Then you will have a well that
you can actually drink from.
That's amazing. So first you recharge,
then you draw once the earth is
recharge, and then you draw. What is
your hope and belief for the access to
clean water for people?
Well, that makes sense. Yes, that's a
good business plan.
It's a win-win.
Well, I mean, thank you so much for
allowing us to come in and see your
work. It's very impressive.
We need to bring the past knowledge of
water management and the wisdom of water
management with
>> [music]
>> cutting-edge modern technology to be
able to bridge the crisis that India
faces with its water supply. [music]
With his work, Wishwanath has sparked a
wave of innovation in restoring
Bangalore's water supply.
I'm going to meet someone following in
his footsteps.
Swapnil.
Hi, Nikolai.
>> Hi. Nice to meet you.
>> Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. I
I'm very optimistic. I brought a water
bottle. I was hoping you could fill it
up maybe.
>> Of course. We spoke to Wishwanath. Got
it.
>> And I know you I I interned under him.
Yeah. Yeah? Yeah. Yeah, yeah. His
technology goes back a thousand years,
thousands of years. Yours is Yes. at the
highest the newest tech. Got it. We make
drinking water from air, and the idea is
Whoa, whoa, slow slow down. That's
It It sounds as if that's a simple thing
to do. So above Bangalore, there is a to
6 billion liters of water right there,
as of now.
That's a lot. That's a lot of
We're standing here in front of these
things. What What is this I'm looking
at? So, this is what we call as a
absorber.
Absorber? Absorber.
What is happening inside is there fans
on top which pull in the air. Yeah. We
have a proprietary liquid salts which
readily absorb moisture from the air,
and we convert that to really high
quality water.
We were in Lima, Peru, and we were up
there. We were up up above the mountains
and it's very poor community, so they
put up these nets to capture
the moisture of the and then I thought
this might be a high-tech version of of
that or or not. So, it's a bit high-tech
because the fog nets already have a lot
of saturated water vapor in the air. So,
it's almost ready to be collected and
condensed. Whereas, we can work from 25%
relative humidity and above. So, even in
dry areas, we can extract water from
air. If I really want the most
futuristic thing possible in water, this
is it.
And that's who's this? Oh.
We call him Yoda because we're all Star
Wars inspired here.
And we have also named the device as
Tatooine because that's the desert
planet in Star Wars where you have these
devices which collect moisture from air.
Huh. Okay. Yeah. Well, that's what I was
>> So, so that's the high-tech version of
>> high-tech version.
And then where do you harvest it then?
How Is that Is it that simple? I'll have
to show you inside. Ah.
In 2016, what happened? I was doing my
thesis on waste water treatment. Uh-huh.
And our campus ran out of water.
Your campus ran out of
>> Our college campus ran out of water.
Huh.
So, a lot of these personal experiences
probably won't see in North America or,
you know, other countries where water is
abundant.
We are really much driven by our own
personal journeys of facing these stark
realities where water access becomes a
challenge.
So, once the liquid salt has absorbed
the moisture from the air, Yeah. it
comes to these three devices. [music]
And here it's heating up to about 50 to
60°C,
and all the water vapor gets collected
[music] back, and this liquid salt goes
back to the absorber to again absorb
moisture. So, it's a continuous cycle.
We can use this salt for almost 10 years
without replacement.
And then what what happens to the water?
Oh, yeah. So, I'll show you around.
In this tank, which we call it the
formulation tank, is where we add
minerals. And then we have a final tank
which then takes you to the bottling
machine. Uh-huh.
Oh, so this is it? Yes, this is it.
And then, of course, also very important
is how much can you produce? Our
facility produces 4,000 L per day.
I'm curious. I want [music] to taste
that water. What it tastes like.
So, you can try it first.
That's very nice. Yeah.
That's normal water.
All right.
Our largest product fits in a 20-ft
shipping container as a modular product.
You just drop it in at any location and
plug it to a energy source.
The idea is you have a machine you you
don't need to be bigger, you just need
to make more of them. Exactly. We need
to make a lot more of them, and it
really at scale so that we bring the
cost further down.
So, we really worked hard to get 2 cents
per liter, and where there's a further
pathway to go 1 cent per liter and
below. Once you hit that price point, it
really unlocks a lot of what is
possible.
And funny part is the Bangalore's daily
demand is about 1.6 billion liters per
day, but
the amount of water that's present in
the air is more than 3-4 billion. Wow.
That's
more than what the whole city needs.
>> So, there would be a a portion where you
could build water stations for people
where they can go and tap. Definitely,
because the idea is that these are
plug-in play solutions. You can just
drop a 20-ft container in anywhere in a
area which has lack of access of water.
>> We just need to have a little bit of
humidity in the air. If that is there,
we could we could definitely bring a
solution there.
While we've been here, we've seen these
different
ways of attacking the water shortage,
the crisis.
>> So, I think there has to be a mix and
match. It's not just one solution. It's
It's It's many. Think that this all came
from Star Wars.
>> [laughter]
[music]
>> You know, when you're just three, four
people, it's very easy to give up. But
when you have so many people believing
in that vision, that just keeps you, you
know, going through.
But now we have a lot of data, you know,
which shows that this is all possible,
doable, and it's [music] a great
solution.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Is that a temple there? It's a temple.
Yeah, that's a small temple to the god
of Saturn, Shani.
Can I leave my socks on? Yeah, socks is
fine.
You said you're very optimistic about
the future. Why Why is that? So, because
we've not [music] realized that we have
many taps
to satisfy a city's thirst. So, rain
water is a tap, lake water is a tap,
>> [music]
>> ground water is a tap, air to water,
that's also available to us as another
one of the taps. Yeah. [music] Now, if
you bring all the taps to play, there
should not be a resource scarcity.
Replenishing our planet's drinking water
is about tapping into every possible
resource.
How can we begin to reclaim every last
drop of what we let go to waste?
Even in places that have a lot [music]
of water,
like Finland.
To me, Finland has always [music] been
the mysterious one of the Nordic
countries.
Their sense of humor is bone dry and
very funny.
And they have good reason to laugh.
In fact, on the Global Happiness [music]
Index, Finland has been ranked the
happiest place on Earth for eight years
straight.
That was a good year.
I'm in Turku.
Beautiful.
Oh, hello. Hi. Hi. Would you like to go
to sauna first to warm up? That's a good
idea.
So, you're not If you want to understand
the Finnish mindset, you have to do the
most Finnish thing possible
and take a sauna.
So, when you hear something like
happiest people in the world,
does it make sense to you? Everybody
seems so connected to nature Yeah. one
way or another, and that's
It's
>> [laughter]
>> It's almost impossible to put into
words. I mean, I I know how it feels
inside, yeah, but to to try to explain
to somebody is is difficult.
So, what is the What are you doing here?
What is this?
Good water. Birch. Oh.
>> [laughter]
>> Give me that.
>> ALL RIGHT.
I'M NOT GOING TO LIE.
>> YEAH, IT'S NOT THAT BAD. HOLY, that's
cold.
Oh my god, that's really cold.
>> It is kind of cool.
This is so good. So, I wanted you to
make like just basic Finnish food. Mhm.
Kind of it describes the simplicity.
Yeah. And we are simple people. Yeah,
that's Yeah. That is That's actually one
way of putting it, yeah. That's probably
one of the
reason like Finland is called the
happiest country in the world. We are
not laughing and dancing on the streets.
That's not it. We take what we have and
we are happy with it.
So, tell me something. There's a thing
called Everyman's Right. Right. What is
that? Can you explain it to me?
It means that all things or everybody in
Finland has the right to wander around
in the woods. You can pick up berries,
you can pick up mushrooms,
you can
camp.
How important is that
in Finland? Do you feel
a natural I think
we really enjoy nature, but we also have
to have the responsibility to take care
of it.
That is kind of part of us.
And Finns don't just put [music] that
ethos into practice, they make it very
personal.
By taking a firm stance on reducing all
waste, including everything that flows
between the bathroom and the Baltic Sea.
It's a beautiful city, Turku.
And it's very impressive what they do
with their
poop.
This is the Kakolanmäki Sewage Plant,
one of the most advanced water treatment
plants in the world.
Hello. Uh Hey. Hello.
Welcome.
Because this is a pretty advanced
facility, do you then have Have you had
a lot of visitors from around the world
to come and
>> Yeah, almost every week we have several
thousand visitors every year. Really?
Yeah.
So, I'm not special for you.
You're one of the thousands. Oh, thank
you.
Thank you.
>> [music]
>> This elevator's taking us down,
way down.
>> [music]
>> Here you can see the whole cave. Was
this a natural cave that you just used
it? Did you dig this out?
>> Everything is [clears throat] excavated
for this process. Wow.
All the waste comes to here? Yeah,
everything.
Per day, it's around 40 Olympic swimming
pools of
daily.
>> [music]
>> Oh yeah.
Do you smell something?
>> I smell something.
Oh me, that is bad.
This is the smell of raw sewage. Yeah.
>> Yeah, makes you feel stronger. Yeah, it
makes me feel
something.
>> Manly.
Here we add ferrous sulfate to the water
and it helps the sludge spin together
and then sink in the bottom.
Mostly you find some disgusting stuff
from the screening, but sometimes
something fun. So we have a little
collection here. This reminds me, do you
remember the movie Pulp Fiction? Yeah.
>> Yep.
I carried this clock up my ass.
>> [laughter]
>> Next we will see the place where the
actual magic happens, the purification
process.
Oh, this is very
>> This is fresh fresh smell. Oh, this is
good. This is This is nice. It's full of
little workers, billions of microbes
working for us doing the purification.
>> Is that why it seems like it's almost
like it's bubbly? Yeah. These microbes,
these are the ones that really do the
hard work here. Yeah.
Here we remove phosphorus and nitrogen.
Phosphorus and nitrogen are one of the
biggest pollutants in the Baltic Sea, so
that's why this is so important.
How long is this? 100 m.
So as you can see, the water starts to
be clearer now. So the process is
basically gets I mean literally cleaner
and cleaner and cleaner the further we
go. Yeah.
So it does it looks quite clean. We can
test it. Come here.
And don't drop it.
>> I won't drop it.
2 m. I can still see it. 2 and 1/2 m.
This is it. 2.75 maybe. Yeah.
Is that good? Very good. Usually when
it's over 2 m it's acceptable.
This is the UV plant. This is our newest
process. UV like in UV light?
>> Yeah.
Here you can see some glow of the UV
disinfection.
>> And what does UV light What does it do?
Expose the pathogens to radiation, so
they can't to reproduce or cause
infections anymore. When the water goes
out to the sea, it's clear swimmable
water. Do you have a place where we can
swim?
Not really. Ah.
>> But we have sauna. Yeah. But what is
this obsession with saunas in in
Finland?
I don't know. Usually it's cold, wet,
dark. Sauna is the place where you can
relax in warm. Maybe that's one of the
reason we are happy people
>> Oh, yeah, you are happy people. I I
yeah.
>> Happy. Sauna is the Sauna is a good
reason to be happy.
Once the water [music] is purified, it's
released back into the sea, finishing
its journey.
But what about the sludge that's been
filtered out?
This is the
dropping place.
The sludge is separated to these tanks.
Uh-huh. Then it goes to centrifuges and
takes the excess water out and drop the
dried sludge to these brown silos. And
then that's being picked up and taken
where?
>> Yeah, by these guys.
The truck comes here five times a day,
around 30 tons each truck taking it to
biogas station. They digest the sludge
forming biogas. Then they liquefy the
biogas for transport fuel and the
nutrients they recover to the
agriculture and landscaping. This truck
actually runs with biogas made out of
Wow. Yeah.
So you want to load this? I I can't wait
to press the button. Yeah. And uh
Just push this one. Okay. This is open.
And just keep it Keep it open. Yeah.
Push Push Push And release.
Oh my god.
Oh, that's
That's not what I expected.
Oh, yes.
Uh
Such a happy feeling.
The basic idea behind this that we're
using all resources.
I think this is the right way.
>> Yeah. Of course.
And now you can close it. Okay. That's
it.
Yeah.
And uh
I take the controller. Oh, yeah.
>> [laughter]
>> Transforming sludge into biofuel
isn't the only way this system harvests
energy from waste.
>> [music]
>> The waste water that comes in here is
actually very warm.
In our facility, the heat in the water
is recovered and used as a heating for
around 20,000 inhabitants in Turku area.
We produce over 10 times energy we use
as the whole process and also our
climate impact is negative.
In Turku,
even waste water is reclaimed and
treated as a valuable resource.
As we wrap up the tour, it seems only
natural that we end the day in the most
Finnish way possible.
How many times have you had a camera
crew filming you when you're in a sauna?
This is my first time I guess. Yeah,
first time ever. If you want to go out
and hunt a fish in Finland, you can do
it.
>> Every man's right. Yeah. Yeah.
You You need You need our fisher guy.
Yeah. That That's why all this here work
here is so important for me because I
love to fish. Yeah. So it's nice to go
to the sea and see the clear water and
nature. So Are you proud of this place?
Of course. Really really proud.
>> We We wouldn't let you in if we weren't
proud of this. Okay. We We love to tell
what we do.
This is great.
>> [music]
>> What gives you the most most joy in your
work?
The satisfaction of many communities
accessing water which they otherwise
would not have.
In an atmosphere [music]
where the environment itself is upgraded
and becomes joyful.
>> [music]
>> Plus communities can be part of the
solution.
For me that gives me hope like because
that that shows
>> [music]
>> how important community is for all of us
to feel connected, to feel part of
something and [music] to have a
responsibility for each other.
I think the world is cynical enough as
it is. So [music] optimism is the only
way forward.
>> [music]
[singing]
[music]